City Future

IDEA –
City Future is a longtime dream of mine, it originated a few years back when I was really upset with the currently available city building games. They were all very shallow and I craved for more interaction and control over my city. I would like to make decisions that could turn a small town into a futuristic utopia or else a graveyard of buildings.

With that in mind, I settled to produce the game of my dreams as a medium to learn and expand my programming and design skills.  I knew it was going to be hard work since big companies take years to produce similar games with a full team of specialists, who am I to come up with something even recognizable as a game?  Well, I have a really clear picture in my mind of what I think the game should look like, and I hope my technical skills can follow what I envision for this project.

Game Mechanics –	 							work in progress…
1)	Map should start relatively small. Player should buy smaller plots of land in order to expand the city borders.
  a.	Plot’s price should be exponentially higher.

2)	Almost everything in the game has to be produced by the industry and/or commercial buildings, or imported from the outside. Ex: cars, office supplies, gas, groceries.

3)	Player will be able to control the price or not (free market) of a few products in the game. Ex: gas, water, electricity by subsidization.
  a.	If price is lower than it should, government will pay for the difference. Else, the difference will be granted to the company providing the product.

4)	Companies (industrial and commercial) will be able to acquire other companies with the possibility to form a monopoly.
  a.	This acquisition will depend on how well the company is doing regarding funds, current sales and government policies / incentives.

5)	Government policies / incentives will be a way for the player to set ground rules for businesses and control variables of the economy such as taxation rate on specific products. Refer to Game Mechanic #3.

6)	Citizens will have many education advancement options like in the real world. Ex: elementary school, high school, college, Masters and PHD.
  a.	The higher the education the higher the citizen will be paid.

7)	Companies will always be owned by one or more citizens.

8)	Citizens can be:
  a.	 Kid student / not student (homeless / not homeless).
  b.	Adult employed / unemployed (homeless / not homeless).
  c.	Elder employed / unemployed (homeless / not homeless).
